Name of Workout|My Personalized Workout Description|Need changes??
Bar Dip|Grip a dip station about shoulder width apart, then lower yourself with control until your shoulder is below your elbow, or as deep as you can go, then reverse the motion and return to your starting position|
Bench Press|Lie down on the bench, put your shoulder blades together and slightly arch your back, then grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder width apart, lower the bar until it touches your chest (somewhere close to your sternum), then push the bar back to starting position and repeat|
Cable Chest Press|Fasten a pair of handles in the top position of a cable cross. Grip the handles and take a step forward and lean slightly forward. Now push the handles forward until they meet the front of your body. Lastly with control let the handles go back to the starting position|
Close-Grip Bench Press|Lie down on the bench, put your shoulder blades together and slightly arch your back. Grip the bar narrower than a regular bench press so your hands are directly above your shoulders or even closer. Lower the bar with control until it touches your chest around where your ribs end. Now push the bar up to the starting position and repeat.|
Close-Grip Feet-Up Bench Press|Lie down on the bench, put your shoulder blades together and slightly arch your back. Grip the bar narrower than a regular bench press so your hands are directly above your shoulders or even closer. Lift your feet up in the air. Lower the bar with control until it touches your chest around where your ribs end. Now push the bar up to the starting position and repeat. |
Decline Bench Press|Set a bench so that is in a decline, either by adjusting the backrest or by elevating the foot. Lie down on the bench, pull your shoulder blades together and down. Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Lower the bar with control until it touches your chest. Push the bar back up to resting then repeat.|
Dumbbell Chest Fly|Lie on a bench and lift a pair of dumbbells to the starting position. With almost completely straight arms, lower the dumbbells out to your sides. When you've lowered the dumbbells as deep as possible, reverse the motion and return the dumbbells to the starting position. Repeat for reps|
Dumbbell Chest Press|Lie on a bench, and lift a pair of dumbbells up to the starting position. Press the dumbbells up to straight arms. Lower the dumbbells with control back to your shoulders. Repeat for reps|
Dumbbell Decline Chest Press|Set a bench so that is in a decline, either by adjusting the backrest or by elevating the foot. Lie down on the bench, and lift a pair of dumbbells to the starting position. Press the dumbbells up to straight arms. Lower the dumbbells with control back to your shoulders. Repeat for reps. |
Dumbbell Floor Press|Sit on the floor with your legs straight and a pair of dumbbells beside you. Pick up the dumbbells up and place them in your hip creak. Lay down while you bring the dumbbells up to your chest. Press them dumbbells to straight arms, bend your knees, and place your feet flat on the floor. Lower the dumbbells slowly till your upper arms hit the floor. Reverse the motion and push dumbbells up to straight arms again. Repeat till finished.|
Dumbbell Pullover|Lie down on a bench and lift a single dumbbell up to almost straight arms above you. Lower the dumbbell down behind your head, while keeping your arms almost completely straight, just with a slight bend in the elbows. Reverse the motion and return the dumbbell to the starting position above your head.|
Feet-Up Bench Press|Lie on a bench, pull your shoulder blades together and down, and slightly arch your back. Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Lift your feet up and hold them up in the air. Lower the bar with control until it touches your chest somewhere close to the sternum. Push the bar back to its original position. Repeat for reps|
Floor Press|Lie down on the floor with your eyes under the racked bar. Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Pull your shoulder blades down and together, and unrack the bar. Lower the bar slowly until your upper arms hit the floor. Reverse the motion and push the bar up to straight arms. Repeat for reps.|
Incline Bench Press|Sitting on an inclined bench, unrack a barbell and hold it so your arms straight above your shoulders. Lower the bar down to your chest. Press the bar up back to where your arms are straight. Repeat for reps.|
Incline Dumbbell Press|Adjust the incline of a bench to be around 30-45 degrees. Sit down and lift a pair of dumbbells to the starting position. Press the dumbbells up to straight arms. Lower the dumbbells with control back to your shoulders. |
Incline Push-Up|Find an elevated surface, you could even use a bench press. Start with your hands slightly wider than shoulders width apart. Try to form a straight line from head to feet and brace your abdomen slightly. Lower yourself as deep as you can. Reverse the motion when you have touched the elevated surface and push yourself up to straight arms again. Repeat for reps.|
Kneeling Incline Push-Up|Find an elevated surface, you could even use a bench press. Assume the starting position on your knees, with your hands on an elevation, and your hands slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Try to form a straight line from head to knee and brace your abdomen slightly. Lower yourself as deep as you can. Reverse the motion when you've touched the elevated surface, and push yourself up to straight arms. Repeat for reps.|
Kneeling Push-Up|Assume the starting position with your hands slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Try to form a straight line from your head to knees and brace your abdomen slightly. Lower yourself as deep as you can. Reverse the motion when you've touched the floor, then push yourself up to straight arms again. Repeat for reps|
Machine Chest Fly|Adjust the back support and handles so that you can grip the handles at shoulder height and get a long range of motion. With just a slight bend in the arms, push the handles forward until they meet in front of your body. With control, let the handles go back to the starting position. Repeat for reps|
Machine Chest Press|Adjust the machine to your personalized appropriate settings, sit down, and grip the handles. Press the handles forward until your arms are straight. Bring the handles back to the starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Pec Deck|Adjust the back support and handles, so you can lean your elbows against the pads while your upper arms are horizontal. Push the pads forward until they meet in front of your body. With control, let the pads go back to the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Push-Up|Assume the starting position with your hands slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Try to form a straight line from your head to your feet, and brace your abdomen slightly. Lower yourself as deep as you can. Reverse the motion when you have touched the floor, now push yourself up to straight arms again. Repeat for reps.|
Push-Up Against Wall|Find a wall with enough space for you to perform push-ups. Now assume the starting position with your hands slightly wider than your shoulder width. Try to form a straight line from head to feet, and brace your abdomen slightly. Lower yourself as deep as you can. Reverse the motion when you've touched the wall and push yourself back up to straight arms. Repeat for reps.|
Push-Up with Feet in Rings|Assume your starting position with hands slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Now place your feet in the rings, and try to form a straight line from head to feet, and brace your core slightly. Lower yourself as deep as you can. Reverse the motion and push yourself up to straight arms again. Repeat for reps|
Resistance Band Chest Fly|Attach a resistance band to a door or something stable, and attach it around your chest level. In a standing position grab the band with one hand and move it away from the anchor point until you feel a stretch and resistance in your chest muscles. Pull the band in front of your body at chest height with a slight bend at the elbow. Contract your chest muscles before returning to the starting position with a controlled movement. Repeat for reps for one side. Once finished switch to the other side of your body and repeat steps|
Smith Machine Bench Press|Lie on the bench and pull your shoulder blades together and down, and hold your chest up. Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Unrack the bar. Lower it with control until it touches your chest. Push the bar back to its original position. Repeat for reps.|
Smith Machine Incline Bench Press|Sit on an inclined bench, pull your shoulder blades together and down, and hold your chest up. Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Unrack the bar. Lower the bar with control until it touches your upper chest. Push the bar back up to its original position. Repeat for reps.|
Standing Cable Chest Fly|Fasten a pair of handles in the top position of a cable cross. Grip the handles and take a step forward and lean slightly forward. With a slight bend in the arms, push the handles forward until they meet in front of your body. Now with control let the handles go back to the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Standing Resistance Band Chest Fly|Attach a resistance band to a door or something stable, and attach it around your chest level. In a standing position grab the band with one hand and move it away from the anchor point until you feel a stretch and resistance in your chest muscles. Pull the band in front of your body at chest height with a slight bend at the elbow. Contract your chest muscles before returning to the starting position with a controlled movement. Repeat for reps. Switch to the other side of your body and repeat the exercise. |
Band External Shoulder Rotation|Fasten an elastic band at elbow height. Grab the band, step away and stand sideways to the band. Grab the band with your arm that is on the opposite side of the band. Keep your upper arm close to your side, and bend your elbow 90 degrees. Rotate your upper arm outwards against the resistance of the band, and move outwards as far as you can. Reverse the movement and repeat for reps.|
Band Internal Shoulder Rotation|Fasten an elastic band at elbow height. Grab the band, step away and stand sideways to the band. Grab the band with your arm that is closest  to the band. Keep your upper arm close to your side, and bend your elbow 90 degrees. Rotate your upper arm inwards against the resistance of the band, and move inwards as far as you can. Reverse the movement and repeat for reps.|
Band Pull-Apart|Grab an elastic band with an elasticity of your choosing. Hold it out in front of you with your arms held out straight. Pull the band apart by moving your arms to the sides as far as you can, or until your arms art straight out like a T. Now return your arms to your starting position with control and repeat for reps.|
Barbell Front Raise|Hold a barbell in straight arms in front of your body. Now with control, lift the barbell forward with straight arms until the bar is at your shoulder length. Reverse the movement and lower the bar with control. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Rear Delt Row|Grip a barbell with a wide overhand grip, and lean forward with bar hanging from you with straight arms. Pull the bar up to your chest, with your upper arms pointing straight out to the sides. With control, lower the bar back to the starting position. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Upright Row|Grip a barbell with an overhand grip that is slightly more narrow than your shoulder width. Pull the bar straight up until it is at the level of your chin. With control lower the bar back to its starting position. Repeat for reps|
Behind the Neck Press|Grab a barbell slightly wider than your shoulder width, now duck under the bar so that it is resting on your neck. Now Press the bar up until your arms are straight. Lower the bar back to its original position with control so it sits at the base of your neck. Repeat for reps.|
Cable Lateral Raise|Situate a cable so it sits at a lower position on a cable pulley, preferably located around your ankles. Stand close to the pulley with the arm holding the handle, while you face away from the machine. With control, lift the handle outwards to your sides until your upper arm is horizontal. Lower the handle till your starting position. Repeat for reps. Rotate your body 180 degrees to hit your other shoulder and repeat steps.|
Cable Rear Delt Row|Fasten a rope handle in a high up position on the cable pulley. Grip the ropes with an overhand grip and take a step or two back. With your elbows held high, pull the rope towards you by letting your upper arms move straight out towards your sides. Pull your scapulae together in the end position. Now return with control to the starting position by letting your arms move forward again. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Front Raise|Hold a pair of dumbbells in straight arms to your side, but in front of your hips. Now with control, lift the dumbbells forward with straight arms, until the dumbbells are at your shoulder height. Reverse this movement and lower the dumbbells back to your side but in front of your hips. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Horizontal Internal Shoulder Rotation|Lie down on the ground on your back, with your upper arm out straight out to your side and bent at a 90 degree angle. With ta dumbbell, rotate your arm upwards against the direction of resistance till your forearm is at a 90 degree angle. Reverse the movement, and repeat for reps. You should do this for both arms.|
Dumbbell Horizontal External Shoulder Rotation|Find a barbell at around your armpit height. Stand sideways to the barbell so that your upper arm is horizontal when you are resting your arm on the bar. Hold a dumbbell in your hand and bend your elbow to 90 degrees. Rotate your arm upwards against the direction of resistance. Now reverse the movement and repeat for reps. Step on the opposite side of the barbell once you have finished your reps for that arm to work on the opposite arm and repeat steps.|
Dumbbell Lateral Raise|Hold a pair of dumbbells with you arms hanging straight by your sides. With control, lift the dumbbells out to your sides until your upper arms are horizontal. Lower the dumbbells back to your sides with control. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Rear Delt Row|Lean your body forward with a dumbbell in each hand. Now make a wide rowing motion, where you let your upper arms go outwards towards the sides. With control return the dumbbells back to your starting position. Repeat for reps|
Dumbbell Shoulder Press|Grab a pair of dumbbells and lift them to a starting position at your shoulders. Press the dumbbells upwards until your arms are straight. Bring the dumbbells back down to your starting position with control so they are at your shoulders. Repeat for reps|
Face Pull|Fasten a rope handle in a high up position on the cable pulley. Grip the ropes with an overhand grip and take one to two steps back. With your elbows held high, pull the rope towards you by letting your upper arms move straight out towards your sides while simultaneously rotating your forearms upwards. Return the rope handle back to its starting position with control by letting your arms move forward again. Repeat for reps.|
Front Hold|Hold a plate In Front of your body with straight arms. With control, lift the plate upward while maintaining straight arms, lift the plate until your arms are straight in front of you, or till the plate is at shoulder height. Now hold for as long as you can. Repeat for reps.|
Lying Dumbbell External Shoulder Rotation|Lie down on the ground on your side. Now with your arm not touching the ground, have the arm not touching the ground sit straight against your body, now bend your elbow 90 degrees. With a dumbbell in hand rotate your arm upwards against the direction of resistance, and go as far as you can. Now reverse the movement with control and repeat for reps. Once finished switch to the opposite side you laid down and repeat steps for other shoulder.|
Lying Dumbbell Internal Shoulder Rotation|Grab a bench to lie down on your side. With the arm that is touching the bench bend your elbow so it is 90 degrees. With a dumbbell in hand rotate your arm upwards against the direction of resistance. Reverse this movement and repeat for reps. Once finished lie down on the opposite side and repeat steps.|
Machine Lateral Raise|Adjust the lateral raise machine so that the pads are leaning against your elbows. Now lift your arms out to your sides until your upper arms are horizontal. Lower the arms back to the starting position and repeat for reps.|
Machine Shoulder Press|Adjust the shoulder press machine so that the machine is at an appropriate setting for you. Sit down and grip the handles. Press the handles upwards until your arms are straight. Lower the handles back to its starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Monkey Row|With your arms by your sides and a dumbbell in each hand, pull the dumbbells straight up  as far as you can. Now with control lower the dumbbells back to your starting position with control. Repeat for reps|
Overhead Press|Place a barbell in a rack at about chest height. Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Now unrack the barbell and let the bar rest against your front delts while you step away from the rack. Press the bar up till your arms are straight. Now lower the bar back with control to your shoulders. Repeat for reps|
Plate Front Raise|Hold a plate with straight arms in front of your body. Lift the plate forward with straight arms until your arms are straight out in front of you, or at shoulder height. Now reverse the movement with control and repeat for reps|
Power Jerk|Get into a starting positioning the barbell above your shoulders. Grip the bar slightly wider than your shoulder width. Unrack the bar and let it sit on the front of your shoulders. Now slightly bend your knees then forcefully extend them to push the bar up. Once you extend your knees you will duck under the bar and "catch" (you DO NOT let go of the bar) it with straight arm by slightly bending your knees. Stand up with straight legs again. Once the bar is at its peak. lower the bar in front of you with control, or you can lower it back onto the front of your shoulders. Repeat for reps.|
Push Press|Grab a barbell with a grip that is slightly outside of your shoulders. Now rest a barbell against the front of your shoulders. Begin to bend your knees, then forcefully push yourself and the bar upwards using your legs. Once your legs become extended start pressing the bar with your arms till your arms are fully extended. With control lower the bar back to your shoulders. Repeat for reps.|
Reverse Dumbbell Flyes|Hold a dumbbell in each hand, now lean forward and let your arms hand towards the floor. With almost straight arms (your going to bend your elbow ever so slightly), now slowly lift the dumbbells by raising your arms out to your sides. Reverse this movement and lower the dumbbells back to its starting position.|
Reverse Machine Fly|Adjust the chest support handles on the machine so that you can grip the handles at shoulder height, that way you can get a long range of motion. With just a slight bend in the arms pull the handles backward by bringing your arms out to the side. Now with control reverse the movement and let the handles reach their starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Seated Dumbbell Shoulder Press|Sit down on a bench with a raised backrest, like a chair. Grab your dumbbells and lift them to the starting position at your shoulders. Press the dumbbells upwards to straight arms. Now lower them back with control to your shoulders. Repeat for reps.|
Seated Barbell Overhead Press|Sit down on a bench with a raised backrest, like a chair. Grib your barbell with an overhand grip. Unrack or place the barbell on your upper chest. Press the barbell upwards to straight arms. Once your barbell is at the top reverse this motion with control and repeat for reps.|
Seated Smith Machine Shoulder Press|Position a bench with a backrest so the bar lines up with the top of your chest. Unrack the barbell and lower it to the starting position at the top of your chest. Now press the bar upwards to straight arms. Now lower the bar back to your chest with control. Repeat for reps.|
Snatch Grip Behind the Neck Press|Grab a barbell with a snatch grip (a wide grip), and duck under the barbell so it is resting on the base of your neck. Press the bar upwards until your arms are straight. Lower the bar back to its original position with control to the base of your neck. Repeat for reps.|
Squat Jerk|Grab a barbell and grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart and let it rest on the front of you shoulders. Slightly bend your knees, and then forcefully extend them to push the bar upwards. Once you have pushed it upwards duck under the bar and catch it on straight arms by bending your knees like in a squat. Once you have reached the position where you are squatting you are going to stand up on straight legs again. Once standing lower the bar back onto the front of your shoulders. Repeat for reps.|
Split Jerk|Grab a barbell and grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder-width apart and let it rest on the front of your shoulders. Once here you will slightly bend your knees and then forcefully extend them to push the bar upwards. Once you have extended your knees you will duck under the bar and catch it on straight arms with your legs in a lunge position. Now to get back to resting take a step back with your front foot then step forward with your back foot until your feet are standing side by side. You will do this all while maintaining straight arms with barbell above your head. Once here lower the bar back the starting position with control and repeat for reps.|
Barbell Curl|Grip a bar with an underhand grip, with your hands located about shoulder width apart. Lift the bar with control by flexing your elbows. Try not to let your upper arm travel backwards during the curl. The goal is to keep it at your side or move it slightly forward. Reverse the movement and lower the bar back to the starting position. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Preacher Curl|Grab a barbell and sit down at a preacher curl bench. You will want to rest your upper arms against the pad. Lower the barbell as far as you can with control. Now lift the bar towards you and the reverse that motion to the starting position. Repeat for reps|
Bodyweight Curl|You want to start off by grabbing the handles of your TRX, or a pair of rings. Then stand with your body facing your anchor point. You want to keep your feet close towards the anchor point and lean back till the cables are at full tension. Now you are in the starting position. You want to keep your arms straight and the palms of your hands facing towards your face. At this point the elbows should be higher up than you shoulders. Begin to slowly bend your arms with control and curl yourself towards the handles you are holding. Then reverse the movement with control and repeat for reps.|
Cable Curl With Bar|Fasten a bar in the lower position of a cable cross, so around where your ankles are located. Grip the bar with an underhand grip, and with your hands at shoulder width apart. Lift the bar with control by flexing your elbows. You don't want to let your upper arm travel backwards during the curl. You want to keep it still or move it slightly forward. Now reverse that motion back to the starting position with control and repeat for reps|
Cable Curl With Rope|Fasten a bar in the lower position of a cable cross, so around where your ankles are located. Grip the rope with a neutral grip and take a step back. Lift the rope with control by flexing your elbows. You don't want to let your upper arm travel backwards during the curl. You want to keep it still or move it slightly forward. Now reverse the motion back to its starting position with control and repeat for reps.|
Concentration Curl|Sit on a bench with a dumbbell in hand, you will want to lean your elbow with the dumbbell in it onto the corresponding leg. Keep in mind you elbow should be sitting on the inside of your leg. Let your arm hang to the ground and lift the dumbbell with control by flexing your elbow. Reverse the movement and lower the dumbbell back to the starting position. Repeat for reps. Once reps have finished switch arms.|
Dumbbell Curl|Grab a pair of dumbbells in an underhand grip with your arms hanging by your side. Lift the dumbbells with control by flexing your elbows.  You don't want to let your upper arm travel backwards during the curl. You want to keep it still or move it slightly forward. Reverse the movement and lower the dumbbells back to their starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Preacher Curl|Use a preacher curl bench or use a bench with a backrest, and have the backrest at an angle similar to the preacher curl bench. With your dumbbell in hand stand behind the bench or sit down at the preacher curl bench and rest your upper arm against the padding. Note we are doing one arm at a time. Lower the dumbbell as far as it can go and then begin curl the dumbbell upwards using your elbow. Repeat this motion for reps.|
Hammer Curl|Hold a pair of dumbbells in a neutral grip, this means your palms will be facing each other. Your arms will be hanging by your side with weight in hand. Lift the dumbbells with control by flexing your elbows. You don't want to let your upper arm travel backwards during the curl. You want to keep it still or move it slightly forward. Now reverse the movement back to its starting position with control and repeat for reps.|
Incline Dumbbell Curl|Grab an incline bench and your pair of dumbbells and sit down on the inclined bench. Let your arms hang straight down by your sides. Lift the dumbbells with control by flexing your elbows. Now reverse this movement and lower the dumbbells back to the starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Machine Bicep Curl|Adjust the machine so that you are correctly positioned. Your upper arms should be resting on the padding while your elbows are in line with the machines joint. Grab the handles with an underhand grip around shoulder width apart. Curl the weight up as far as you can, and make sure to do the entire movement at a controlled speed. Reverse back to your starting position, but don't let the weights hit the stack. Repeat for reps.|
Spider Curl|Grab a bench with a backrest and angle the back rest at 45 degrees. Now grab your dumbbells with and underhand grip and lie stomach first on the bench. Have your arms hang towards the ground and begin to lift the dumbbells with control.  You don't want to let your upper arm travel backwards or forwards during the curl. You want to keep the movement to your forearms only. Reverse the movement and lower the dumbbells back to its starting position with control. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Standing Triceps Extension|Grip a barbell with a close grip and lift it up to straight arms over your head. Now lower the barbel behind your head while keeping your upper arms still and vertical. Now while the barbell is sitting behind your back you want to keep your upper arms still and bring the barbell upwards so your arms are straight. Reverse that motion and bring the barbell back to behind your back. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Lying Triceps Extension|Grab a bench and lie down on a bench with your head close to the edge. Now lift the barbell to straight arms over yourself. Lower the barbell down behind your head. Try your best to keep the same distance between your elbows throughout the whole movement. Now raise the barbell over your head till your arms are straight and then reverse that motion. Repeat for reps.|
Bench Dip|Grab a bench and turn your back towards it and put your hands on the pads. Make sure your hands are about shoulder width apart and extend your legs in front of you. Lower yourself with control by bending your arms as far as you can downwards without causing discomfort in your arms. Reverse the motion and return to your starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Close-Grip Push-Up|Assume a starting position with your hands at shoulder-width. Try to form a straight line from your head to your feet and brace your abdomen slightly. Begin to lower yourself as far as you can go. Then push yourself back up to your starting position till your arms are straight again. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Lying Triceps Extension|Lie down on a bench with your head close to the edge. Hold a pair of dumbbells with your arms pointing straight up. Lower the dumbbell down behind your head. While this is happening try to keep the same distance between your elbows throughout the movement. Now reverse the motion until your arms are straight again. Repeat for reps|
Dumbbell Standing Triceps Extension|Grab a dumbbell and lift it up to a straight arm over your head. Lower the dumbbell down behind your head while you keep your upper arm still and vertical. Reverse this motion and extend your arm again. Repeat for reps.|
Overhead Cable Triceps Extension|Fasten a rope handle in the lower position of a cable pulley, so about where your ankle level is. Stand with your back against the pulley, slightly lean forward and hold the rope behind your head and your upper arms next to your ears. Straighten your elbows until your arms are fully extended. Reverse the motion by bending your arms again. Repeat for reps.|
Tricep Bodyweight Extension|Position a bar so it is around hip height. Make sure the bar is racked and you have space below. Grab the bar using an overhead grip, with your hands about shoulder width apart. To start your arms should be fully extended, and your core and glutes activated as in a standing plank position. Bend your arms and bring your torso forward and lower your head below the bar. Make sure you do this slowly and with control. Reverse the movement by straightening your arms. Repeat for reps|
Tricep Pushdown With Bar|Take a step away from a cable pulley that is taller than you. Grip the bar with an overhand grip and make sure your hands are shoulder width apart. Pull the handle down until your upper arms are perpendicular to the floor. This is your starting position. Now you will push the handle down until your arms are fully extended. with control reverse this motion and let the handle come up again. Repeat for reps|
Tricep Pushdown With Rope|Take a step away from a cable pulley that is taller than you. Fasten rope handle in the upper position of the cable pulley. Grip the rope with an overhand grip and take one step back from the pulley. Pull the rope down until your upper arms are perpendicular to the floor. This is your starting position. Push the rope downwards until your arms are full extended. Now with control let the rope come back up again. Repeat for reps.|
Air Squat|Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart. Now squat as deep as possible. Reverse the movement and return your standing position. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Hack Squat|Find a barbell or a bar and stand in front of it. You will want to squat down and grip the bar with your arms outside of your legs. Start to lift the bar and pull the bar close to your body with a straight back until you are standing straight again. Lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Lunge|Grab a barbell or a bar and rest it on the back of your shoulders or the bottom of your neck. Once it rested in your desired location you will take a big step forward and sink as deep as possible in a lunge position. Note though you do not want your knee of your back leg to touch the floor. Now once you have lunged you can return to your starting position and repeat movement for reps|
Barbell Walking Lunge|Grab a barbell or a bar and rest it on the back of your shoulders or the bottom of your neck. Now stand with your feet at shoulder width apart with a slight bend in your knees. Step forward with one leg bending both knees at the same time. Stop the movement just before your back knee touches the floor. It is ideal for both of your knees to reach a 90 degree angle before you continue your next step. Drive through your front foot and extend your front knee until you get to a standing position. Continue by repeating the movement on the other side. Repeat for reps|
Belt Squat|Place the belt around your waist properly and attach it to the machine. Make sure you are standing accordingly to your normal squat stance. Whenever you are ready unrack the weight and squat as deep as possible with proper technique. Now with control, stop and reverse the movement by extending your hips and legs again. Repeat for reps.|
Body Weight Lunge|Take a big step forward and sink as deep as possible in a lunge position. Note you do not want the knee of the back leg to touch the floor, you want both knees as close to a 90 degree angle as possible without your back knee touching the ground. Now return to the starting position by pushing yourself back with your front leg. Repeat for reps and switch which leg goes out front to work that leg as well.|
Box Squat|Grab a box that is slightly lower than your knee location and place it behind you. Place the bar on your upper back. Whenever your ready unrack the bar and take two steps back and adjust your foot position if needed. Squat down to the box and stand up again. Repeat for reps|
Bulgarian Split Squat|Grab a bench and a bar or barbell. Stand with your back turned against a bench, this bench should be at about knee height. Take one long step in front of the bench. Place one foot on the bench behind you. Look forward and squat down with control until right before the knee of the back leg touches the floor. Reverse the movement and extend your front leg again. Repeat for reps|Needs slight adjustment
Chair Squat|Grab a chair to place behind you Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart, or where you feel comfortable. Squat until you touch the chair. Reverse the movement and return to a standing position Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Lunge|Hold a dumbbell in each hand and stand with your feet about shoulder width apart. Take a big step forward and sink as deep as possible in a lunge position, do this without hitting the knee of your back leg touching the floor. Return to the starting position by pushing yourself back with the front leg. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Squat|Hold a dumbbell in each hand and stand with your feet about shoulder width apart. Begin your squat and squat down as deep as possible. Reverse the movement and return to a standing position. Repeat for reps|
Front Squat|Grip the bar slightly wider than shoulder width. Step forward and place the bar on the front of your shoulders. Specifically on top of your clavicles and tight against your throat. Unrack the bar when you are ready and take two steps back and adjust your foot position if needed. Squat as deep as possible with technique. With control, stop and reverse the movement by extending your hips and legs again until you are standing. Repeat for reps.|
Goblet Squat|Grab a kettlebell on the sides of the handle and hold the kettlebell against your chest. Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart and your toes pointing slightly outward. Squat down as deep as possible. Reverse the movement and return to the starting position Repeat for reps.|
Hack Squat Machine|Adjust the machine to the correct height and place your shoulders against the shoulders pads.Put your feet on the plate, slightly in front of the base of the sled and about shoulder width apart. Extend your legs and disengage the sled's locks. Squat down as deep as you can with good form. Reverse the movement with control and extend your legs again until you are back in the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Half Air Squat|Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart or wherever you feel comfortable. Squat as deep as possible or as deep as you want. Reverse the movement and return to a standing position. Repeat for reps.|
Hip Adduction Machine|Adjust the machine to the appropriate settings, sit down with your legs outside the pads and grip the handles. Push the pads toward each other by bringing your legs together. Return with control to the starting position Repeat for reps.|
Landmine Hack Squat|Place one end of a barbell into a corner. Facing away from the bar place the other of one of your shoulders. Squat down as deep as possible with good technique. With control, stop once you have reached the bottom of your squat and reverse the movement back to a standing position by extending your hips and legs. Repeat for reps.|
Landmine Squat|Place one end of a barbell into a corner. Grip the other end with both of your hands and rest your hands against the top of your chest. Squat down as deep as possible with good technique. With control, stop and reverse the movement by extending your hips and legs until you are standing up. Reverse for reps.|
Leg Extension|Adjust the machine so that you are correctly positioned. Your knees should be in line with Leg Extensions joint. Extend your knees with control, until they are completely straight. Slowly lower the weight again. Repeat for reps. |
Leg Press|Adjust the machine so that you only need to extend your legs slightly so you can be able to release the weights. Make sure to adjust the safety pins so that they catch the weight if your are unable to lift it Place your feet on the platform about shoulder width apart. Lower the weight by bending your legs Lower the weight as deep as possible without rounding your back and keeping your glutes in the seat. Press the weight back up again. Repeat for reps|
Lying Leg Curl|Adjust the machine so your are in a appropriate position. This means your knees should be in line with the machines joints. Lift the weight by bending your knees as far as possible. Slowly lower the weight again. Repeat for reps|
Pause Squat|Place the bar on your upper back, and unrack the bar when ready. Take two steps back and adjust your foot position if needed. Squat as deep as possible with good technique  Stop at the bottom position and pause for a couple seconds. Once you have finished your pause stand up again to your starting position Repeat for reps|
Romanian Deadlift|Get into a starting position by deadlifting a barbell from the floor, or by unracking it from a barbell rack. Begin to lean forward by hinging your hips and keep your knees almost completely extended. Lean forward as far as possible without rounding your back. The goal is not to touch the barbell to the floor, but it is absolutely okay if it does touch the floor. Reverse that movement and return to your starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Safety Bar Squat|Grip the handles of a safety squat bar and place the bar on your upper back. Take two steps back once you have unracked the bar and adjust your foot position if needed. Squat as deep as possible with good technique With control reverse the movement by extending your hips and legs til you are standing again. Repeat for reps|
Seated Leg Curl|Adjust the Seated Leg Curl Machine so that you are correctly positioned. This means that your knees should be in line with the machines joints. You will now push the weight down by bending your knees as far as possible. Slowly and with control let the weight back to its starting position. Repeat for reps|
Shallow Body Weight Lunge|Take a big step forward and lower your body into a lunge position. Try to go as deep as you can, but don't push yourself, just as deep as your body allows. Lift your body upwards by pressing the front leg away from the ground. Repeat for reps|
Side Lunges Bodyweight|Stand up straight, and allow for lots of room to the side you will be stepping to. Take a big step to the left of right of you (whichever side you are working on). Go as deep as possible to that side without your heel lifting from the ground. Now push yourself back up by pressing the foot on the side from the ground back to your starting position. Repeat for reps, and switch sides to hit both of your legs|
Smith Machine Squat|Step into the smith machine area with your feet directly below the bar. Your feet should be about shoulder width apart, you will then want to place the bar on your upper back. You can now begin your squat, you will want to squat as deep as possible with good technique. With control you will reverse this movement until you are standing upright again. Repeat for reps.|
Squat|Grab a bar or barbell and place it on your upper back. When you are ready unrack the bar and take two steps back, adjusting your feets position if needed. Squat as deep as possible with good technique. With control reverse this movement until you are standing straight again, do this by extending your hips and legs once at the bottom of the squat. Repeat for reps.|
Step Up|Stand in front of a bench, box or even a chair. Please make sure whatever you are stepping up to can hold your weight and is stable. Place one of your feet onto the object you will be stepping up to. Now step up to the object until your leg is straight. Lower yourself wit control until your other foot has touched the ground. Keep in mind you want to keep your other foot on the object at all times. Repeat for reps.|
Back Extension|First adjust the machine so it fits you correctly. The top of the pad should be positioned against the top of your thighs. Step onto the machine and position yourself with your feet shoulder width apart and your upper thighs against the top pad. Your upper body should be hanging off the edge of the machine, with your arms crossed over your chest, or your hands behind your head. It is optional but you can also hold a weight plate against your chest, this isn't necessary but you can add weight if you choose to. When ready use your lower back muscles to lift your upper body upwards til your body is straight. Once your body is straight hold this position for one second and then slowly lower your body back down again. Repeat for reps.|
Barbell Row|Grip a barbell or bar with an overhand grip. You will want to lean your upper body forward with the bar hanging straight from your arms. Begin to pull the bar towards you. Pull the bar as high up as possible so it touches your abs or your chest. Lower the bar back to its starting position with control. Repeat for reps|
Barbell Shrug|While standing upright, hold a barbell or bar with straight arms in front of your body. To begin lift your shoulders straight up as high as you can. Once at your peak lower the bar back to its starting position with control Repeat for reps.|
Block Snatch|Grab two blocks that you can put on both sides of you. Lay a barbell on two blocks so that the barbell is just above knee height. Lean forward and grab the bar with a wide overhand grip. Now to begin lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion by extending your legs and knees simultaneously. Once the bar has reached its maximum speed, you will squat down while holding the bar and "catch" the bar on straight arms over your head. Once you have control of the bar and it is at a standstill you will stand straight up. Lower the bar down to the blocks with control and repeat for reps|
Cable Close Grip Seated Row|Attach a narrow handle to the cable row and assume your starting position Its important that you maintain an upright posture with your chest out and your shoulders back. Now to begin lean forward slightly and let your scapula move freely by letting them slide forward Now being to retract your shoulder blades and pull the handle towards your lower abdomen while leaning back ever so slightly Now return to your starting position by extending your arms and leaning forward. Repeat for reps.|
Cable Wide Grip Seated Row|Grip a bar that is slightly wider than shoulder width and assume your starting position. Begin to pull the handle towards your abdomen all while leaning backwards ever so slightly. Then return to your starting position by extending your arms and leaning forward. Repeat for reps.|
Chin-Up|Grip a bar with a grip where your palms are facing you. Keep your chest up and look at the bar. Now begin to pull yourself up until your chin is over the bar or the bar touches your upper chest. Lower yourself back downwards with control until your arms are fully extended and repeat for reps.|
Clean|Step up close to the bar or barbell so that it is located just over the middle of your foot. Now lean forward and grip the bar with an overhand grip that is about shoulder-width apart. Lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion. While you are lifting you are then going to squat down and you will lift the bar so it ends up sitting on the front of your shoulders. Once it rests on the front of your shoulders you are then going to stand up on straight legs. Once fully stood up you will then lower the bar in front of you down to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Clean and Jerk|Step up close to the bar or barbell so that it is just over the middle of your foot. Now you will lean forward and grip the bar with an overhand grip, your grip should just about be shoulder-width apart. Now lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion. As you begin to lift you will simultaneously squat down while lifting the bar so it rests on the front of your shoulders. Once the bar is resting on your shoulders you will stand up on straight legs again. Now that you are standing up you will want to slightly bend your knees, and then forcefully extend them to push the bar up. While this is happening you will then duck under the bar and "catch" it on straight arms, with your legs in a lunge position. Once in the lunge position you will slowly begin to move the foot behind you forward until you are standing with your feet side by side. Once your feet are side by side and your arms are straight above you holding the bar you will then lower the back back in front of you with control. Repeat for reps.|
Deadlift|Step up close to the bar so that it is just over the middle of your foot. Now lean forward, and grip the bar. As you begin to lift the bar try to pull the bar close to your body while maintaining a straight back, do this until you are standing straight. Now at a standing position begin to lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Deficit Deadlift|We recommend that you grab a weight plate to stand on for your elevation in this exercise. You will want to stand close to the bar, so that it is just over the middle of your foot. Now begin to lean forward, and grip the bar. As you begin to lift the bar pull the bar close to your body, while trying to maintain a straight back, do this until you are standing straight. Now begin to lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Deadlift|Hold a dumbbell in each hand, and while standing upright make sure your feet about hip-width apart. Now begin to lower the dumbbells close to the floor, the dumbbells can touch the floor and that is okay as well. Just make sure while lowering the dumbbells that you are leaning forward and bending your knees Now you will want to reverse that movement and bring yourself to a standing position. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Row|You will want to grab a bench and a pair of dumbbells. Set the dumbbell on the floor beside the bench. Now facing the bench you want to place your left hand and left knee on top of it. While in this position is important to keep your back flat and parallel to the ground, with a slight bend in leg touching the ground. Now grip and grab the the dumbbell with your right hand. Now start to lift the dumbbell upwards by driving your elbow toward the ceiling. Now begint to lower the dumbbell back to the starting position. Repeat for reps, once finished switch the leg and arm that rest on the bench to your opposite arm and leg and use your opposite arm to lift the dumbbell.|
Dumbbell Shrug|While standing upright hold a pair of dumbbells at your sides. Now lift your shoulders straight up as high as possible. Then lower your shoulders back to your starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Floor Back Extension|Lie on the ground with your arms at a 90-degree angle to your sides. Make sure hands are by your head not your hips. Now you will want to stare at the ground that way your neck assumes a natural position. Begin to lift your upper body by using your lower back. If you want you can also stop at the top of the movement if you wish to do so, you will feel the lower back muscles working. Now lower your body back down in a slow and controlled motion Repeat for reps.|
Good Morning|Grab a barbell or a bar and place it on your upper back. Unrack the bar whenever you are ready, then take two steps back, and adjust your feet so they are slightly wider than hip-width. Now begint to lean forward by hinging your hips. It helps to imagine that you are trying to push your butt back as far back as possible. Now lean forward as far as you can all while maintaining a straight back, also make sure that the bar does not end up rolling forward. Your knees will bend slightly, but note that most of the movement in this exercise takes place in the hips. Now reverse the movement by extending your hips again and bringing your butt forward. Repeat for reps.|
Hang Clean|Grab a bar or barbell and grip it with an overhand grip, your grip should be about shoulder-width apart, and begint to lift the bar up to get into the starting position. Now you want to lower the bar along your thighs, you want it to sit at about knee-level, you will do this by bending your hips and knees. Now to reverse the movement you will lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion by extending your legs and knees simultaneously. While that happens you will then squat down again to receive the bar on the front of your shoulders. Once it is resting on the front of your shoulders you will stand up on straight legs again. Lower the bar back in front of you with control and repeat for reps.|
Hang Power Clean|Grab a bar or barbell and grip the bar with an overhand grip, the grip should be about shoulder-width apart, and lift it up to assume your starting position. You will want to have the bar sit along your thighs, down to about knee-level, by bending your hips and knees. Now to reverse this movement you will lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion by extending your legs and knees simultaneously.  Now you won't be squatting you will bend your knees slightly and receive the bar on the front of your shoulders. Once the bar is resting on your shoulders stand up on straight legs again. Once you are standing up you can now lower the bar with control back to your thighs. Repeat for reps.|
Hang Power Snatch|Grab a bar or barbell and grip the bar with a wide overhand grip, begint to lift the bar up to get into the starting position, you will want to rest the bar at your hip level or rest it in the hip crease. Lower the bar along your thighs, down to about knee-level, by bending your hips and knees. Now to reverse this movement you will lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion, by extending your legs and knees simultaneously. Once the bar has reached maximum speed, bend your knees slightly and "catch" the bar on straight arms over your head. Once the bar is straight above your head with straight arms and you have control begin to stand up straight. Once down lower the bar back to the levels of your hips and repeat for reps.|
Hang Snatch|Grab a bar or barbell and grip the bar with a wide overhand grip and begin to lift it up to get into the starting position, you will want to rest the bar at the height of your hips or rest it within the hip crease. Now to begin the exercise lower the bar along your thighs, down to about knee-level, by bending your hips and knees. Now to reverse the movement you will want to lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion, by extending your legs and knees simultaneously. Once the bar has reached maximum speed, you will want to squat down deep and "catch" the bar on straight arms over your head. Once your arms are straight over your head and you have control you will stand up straight. Once standing straight you will lower the bar back in front of you to your hip crease. Repeat for reps.|
Inverted Row|Place a barbell in a rack, make sure that is racked high enough for you to be able to hang below it in straight arms, with your heels on the floor. Now before you get into your starting position make sure you grip the bar with an overhand grip, your grip will be slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Once in your starting position begint to pull yourself up as high as you can, or until your chest touches the bar. Once your chest has touched the bar or you have lifted yourself as high as you can you will begin to lower yourself back to the starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Inverted Row with Underhand Grip|Place a barbell in a rack, make sure it is high enough for you to be able to hang below it in straight arms, with your heels on the floor. Grip the bar with an underhand grip, make sure your grip is about shoulder-width apart. Now begint top lift yourself towards the bar and pull yourself up as high as you can, or until your chest touches the bar. Once you have lifted yourself as high as you can go, or if your chest touched the bar begin to lower yourself back to the starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Kettlebell Swing|Grab a kettlebell and place it on the ground, make sure it is located about one or two feet in front of you. Now begin to take a wide stance, and lean forward and grip the kettlebell. Now to begin swing the kettlebell back between your legs, then swing the kettlebell forward by extending your hip. Try your best to swing the kettlebell to about chest height. Repeat for reps and once finished place the kettlebell back on the ground.|
Lat Pulldown With Pronated Grip|Find the Lat Pulldown Machine in your gym and begin by adjusting the thigh pad to fit snugly against your thighs to prevent your body from lifting off the seat. Now grasp the bar above you with an overhand grip, and make sure your hands are slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. You want to make sure that you are sitting with your thighs under the thigh pad, keeping your chest up, and look at the bar. Begint to pull the bar down towards your chest, leading with your elbows. You will continue to pull until the bar is below your chin or touches your upper chest. While at the very bottom of this movement you want to make sure you are squeezing your shoulder blades together. Slowly release the bar back to its starting position and repeat for reps.|
Lat Pulldown with Supinated Grip|Find the Lat Pulldown Machine in your gym and begin by adjusting the thigh pad to fit snugly against your thighs to prevent your body from lifting off the seat. Begin to grip the bar so your palms are facing you, you also want to make sure they are about shoulder-width apart. You want to make sure that you sit down with your thighs under the leg support, keep your chest up, and look up at the bar. Now begin to pull the bar towards you and pull the bar down until it is below your chin or touches your upper chest. Once it has been pulled down below your chin you will want to slowly return the bar until your arms are fully extended. Repeat for reps.|
One-Handed Cable Row|Find a cable row machine in your gym and grab the handle and assume the starting position. Now begin to pull the handle towards the side of your abdomen, while you are pulling it backwards make sure that you are leaning back slightly. Now slowly return to the handle to the starting position by extending your arm and leaning forward.|
One-Handed Lat Pulldown|Sit down at the machine with your thighs under the leg support, grab the handle above you with one hand, make sure you keep your chest up, and look slightly up.  Begin to pull the handle towards the same side as the hand you are using to pull down with. Then you want to slowly return the handle until your arm is extended again. Repeat for reps and once finished switch sides to the other arm |
Pause Deadlift|Step yourself up close to the bar or barbell so that the bar is just over the middle of your foot. When ready grip the bar with an overhand grip and begin to lift the bar. However you want to pause the movement when the bar is just a few inches above the floor. Aftering pausing for a couple of seconds you will complete the exercise by pulling the bar close to your body, pull until you are completely standing upright. Now lower the bar back to the ground with control and repeat for reps.|
Pendlay Row|Grab a bar or barbell and lean forward by hinging in your hip, and grip the bar with an overhand grip. Now begin to pull the bar towards you, note that your goal is to not move your upper body whatsoever. Pull the bar as high as you can, so that it touches your abs or chest. Once at the highest point in your lift begin to lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Power Clean|Grab a barbell or bar and step up close to the bar, make sure the bar is located so it sits just over the middle of your foot. Now to begin your exercise lean forward and grip the bar with an overhand grip, your grip on the bar should be just about shoulder-width apart. Now lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion. As you are lifting bend your knees slightly and you will end up lifting the bar so it rests on the front of your shoulders. When the bar is resting on your shoulders stand up on straight legs again. Now just lower the bar in front of you to the ground slowly with control. Repeat for reps.|
Power Snatch|Grab a barbell or bar and step up close to the bar, make sure the bar is located so it sits just the middle of your foot. Now to begin your exercise lean forward and grip the bar with a wide overhand grip, your hands should be close to the weight plates. Now begin to lower your hips closer to the floor. Now lift the bar in a smooth but fast motion, by extending your legs and knees simultaneously. Once the bar has reached maximum speed, bend your knees slightly and "catch" the bar on straight arms over your head. When the bar is above your head and you have control begin to stand up straight. Once you are stood up begin to lower the bar back to the ground slowly and with control Repeat for reps.|
Pull-Up|Find a pull up bar in your gym and grab the bar with your palms facing away from you, your grip should be slightly wider than your shoulder-width. Before lifting yourself make sure your chest is up, and look up at the bar. Begin to pull yourself up until your chin is over the bar or until the bar touches your upper chest. Now at the top of your pull-up begin to lower yourself with control until your arms are fully extended. Repeat for reps|
Rack Pull|Grab two blocks or weights to rest the bar to your desired height, you can also use a rack and adjust where the bar sits to your desired height. Now step up close to the bar, and make sure the bar is located so that it is just over the middle of your foot. Begin to lean forward and bend your knees slightly, and grip the bar. Grip the bar with an overhand grip and make sure your grip is just about shoulder width apart. Now begin to lift the bar and pull the bar close to your body with a straight back, until you are standing straight. Lower the bar back down so it sits on the rack or blocks you have place beside you. Repeat for reps.|
Seal Row|Grab a bench you can lie on, and lie on your stomach on the bench, raise the bench high enough so you can slide a barbell underneath it on the floor below you. Grab the bar with an overhand grip, and make sure your grip is slightly wider than shoulder-width. Begin to pull the bar towards you and pull it as high as you can, if you can have it touch the underside of the bench. With control, lower the bar back to the ground. Repeat for reps.|
Seated Machine Row|Adjust the machine to the correct settings and sit down in the starting position. Begin to pull the handles towards you, try to go as far backwards as far as possible. At the height your lift begin to slowly return the handles to the starting position again. Repeat for reps.|
Snatch|Grab a bar or barbell and step up close to the bar, make sure the bar is located so that it is just over the middle of your foot. Begin to lean forward and grip the bar with a wide overhand grip, your hands should be close to the weight plates. Now begin to lower your hips closer to the floor. Now in a smooth but fast motion lift the bar by extending your legs and knees simultaneously. Once the bar has reached maximum speed, squat down deep and "catch" the bar on straight arms over your head. Once you have control of the bar above your head begin to stand up straight. Once standing up you can now begin to lower the bar in front of you to the ground and make sure you do this with control. Repeat for reps.|
Snatch Grip Deadlift|Grab a bar or barbell and step up close to the bar, make sure the bar is located so it sits just over the middle of your foot. Grip the bar with a wide grip, your hands should be close to the weight plates. Now begin to lean forward and lift the bar. Pull the bar close to your body, while maintaining a straight back, pull the bar until you are standing straight. Once you are standing straight begin to lower the bar back to the ground. Repeat for reps.|
Stiff-Legged Deadlift|Grab a bar or barbell and step up close to the bar, make sure the bar is located so it sits just over the middle of your foot. Make sure to position your feet so that they are shoulder-width apart. Begin to lean forward with only a slight bend in your knees, and grip the bar. Grip the bar with an overhand grip that is about shoulder width apart. Begin to lift the bar. Pull the bar close to your body, with a straight back, until you have reached a standing position. While lifting make sure to keep your legs as straight as possible. Once you are at the height of your lift begin to lower the bar back to the ground with control, still keeping your legs straight.Repeat for reps.|
Straight Arm Lat Pulldown|Just to note you can use a pulley station for this exercise. You will want to grip the bar so your palms are facing away from you, make sure your grip is slightly wider than shoulder-width. Now while maintaining straight arms, push the bar down in front of you by contracting your lats. Now slowly return the bar back to the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Sumo Deadlift|Grab a bar or barbell and step up close to the bar with wide foot placement. To start you want to make sure the bar is just over the middle of your foot. Make sure you stand so wide that your shins are vertical, so your feet should be located close to the weights on the side of the bar.  Grip the bar with an overhand grip and make sure your grip is about shoulder width apart. Begin to lift the bar and try to pull the bar close to your body, with a straight back, until you are standing straight. Lower the bar back to the ground with control and repeat for reps.|
T-Bar Row|Find the T-Bar machine in your gym and stand on the plate, lean forward, and grasp the bar with an overhand grip with straight arms. Begin to pull the bar towards you as high as possible. At the height of your lift lower the bar back to the starting position with control. Repeat for reps.|
Trap Bar Deadlift With High Handles|Find a trap bar in your gym. You will want to step into the bars opening, and position yourself so that the handles are in line with the middle of your feet. Begin to bend down and grip the handles. Make sure your palms are facing inwards towards you. Now lift the bar with a straight back, until you are standing straight. Once you are standing straight you can lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Trap Bar Deadlift With Low Handles|Find a trap bar in your gym. You will want to step into the bars opening and position yourself so that the handles are in line with the middle of your feet. Make sure that the trap bars handles that raise up are facing the ground. Begin to bend down and grip the handles. Make sure your palms are facing inwards towards you. Begin to lift the bar with a straight back, until you are standing straight. Once you are standing straight lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Banded Side Kicks|Find an elastic band and place the elastic band around your ankles. If need be fins something to hold onto with your hands to maintain your balance. Stand on one leg and bring your other leg out to your side as far as you can. Bring the leg back so it is just barely floating above the ground and repeat for reps.|
Cable Pull Through|Grab a rope handle and attach it to the lower position on a cable pulley. Turn your back against the pulley, with the cable between your thighs, and take a couple steps forward. Now you will want to bend forward by hinging in your hips, and let the rope handle move between your thighs. Extend your hips again, and return to a standing position. Repeat for reps.|
Clamshells|Find somewhere on the ground where it is comfortable for you to lie on your side, then bend your legs at about a 90-degree angle. You will want to tuck your pelvis inwards to properly activate your glutes. Now begin to lift the your leg that is facing the ceiling by using your glutes. Try to lift your leg as high as you can while maintaining contact with the glute muscles. Lower the leg back downwards with control until it touches your leg on the ground. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Romanian Deadlift|Stand straight while holding a pair of dumbbells. Begin to lean forward by hinging in your hips. Keep your knees almost completely extended while you lean forward. Now begin to lean forward as far as possible without rounding your back. Keep in mind that you don't have to touch the dumbbells to the floor, but if you do that is absolutely fine. Now begin to reverse the movement and return to the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Frog Pumps|Find some ground that is comfortable to lie on, lie on your back and bring the soles of your feet together. Keep in mind that your feet will stay together but your knees will go as outwards a possible almost like a frog. Try to bring your feet as close to your butt as possible then place a dumbbell on your hips. Make sure that your lower back and shoulders are pressed down on the floor before starting the movement. You will then press your feet down into the floor and squeeze your glutes to thrust your hips upwards. Make sure to take a very brief pause at the top and then begin to lower yourself back down with control. Repeat for reps.|
Fire Hydrants|Find some ground that is comfortable to stand on all fours, make sure you are staring at the floor. Now begin to lift your leg to the side by using your glute muscles. Try to lift your leg as high as possible while maintaining contact with your glutes. Slowly lower your leg back to the ground. Repeat for reps and then make sure to switch to the other leg on the other side.|
Frog Pumps|Find some ground that is comfortable to lie on, lie on your back and bring the soles of your feet together. Keep in mind that your feet will stay together but your knees will go as outwards a possible almost like a frog. Try to bring your feet as close to your butt as possible. Make sure that your lower back and shoulders are pressed down on the floor before starting the movement. You will then press your feet down into the floor and squeeze your glutes to thrust your hips upwards. Make sure to take a very brief pause at the top and then begin to lower yourself back down with control. Repeat for reps.|
Glute Bridge|Find some ground that is comfortable to lie down on and when you lie down make sure to keep your feet on the floor. You will want to tuck your pelvis inwards to properly activate the glutes. Now begin to push your hips towards the ceiling by using your glutes, continue to push your hips upward until your body forms a straight line from head to knees. When you are at the height of the exercise squeeze your glutes. Reverse the movement, and repeat for reps.|
Hip Adduction Against Band|Find a bench and sit down with an elastic band around your knees, they should be right below your kneecap and your feet should be about hip width apart. Begin to move your legs apart as far as possible, against the band. Then return with control to the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Hip Adduction Machine|Find your Hip Adduction machine and adjust the machine to the appropriate settings, sit down, and grip the handles. Make sure the pads are located on the outer part of both of your knees. Then begin to push the pads out by moving your legs apart as far as possible. Reverse the motion until you are at the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Hip Thrust|Find a bench you can use for this exercise and sit on the floor with your back against a the bench. Now roll the barbell or bar up over your thighs, until it is located over your hips. Plant your feet on the floor, and make sure they are about shoulder-width apart while having bent knees. Place your hands on the bar with an overhand grip to stabilize the bar that is resting on your hips. Push the bar towards the ceiling by extending your hips. Note that when you are at the top of the exercise your knees should form around a 90 degree angle. Lower the weight till your glutes are barely floating above the ground and repeat for reps.|
Hip Thrust Machine|Find the Hip Thrust machine in your gym and adjust the machine and get into position. Make sure the pad of the machine is resting on your hip and push the pad towards the ceiling by extending your hips. Begin to lower the weight back to its starting position and repeat for reps.|
Hip Thrust With Band Around Knees|Find a bench you can use for this exercise and sit on the floor with your back against the bench. Place an elastic band around your knees, just below your kneecap. Roll the barbell up over your thighs, until it is sitting on your hips. Plant your feet on the floor, make sure your feet are about shoulder width apart while bending your knees. Place your hands on the bar with an overhand grip to stabilize the bar resting on your hips. Begin to push the bar towards the ceiling by extending your hips. Note that your knees should form about a 90 degree angle at the height of your lift. Lower the weight so your glutes are just barely floating above the ground and repeat for reps.|
Lateral Walk With Band|Find an elastic band and place an elastic band around your ankles. Now begin to walk sideways, note to do this you have to bring your leg out against the bands resistance. Now you can do this exercise in two ways. You can change your direction after every step, or you can continue to take steps in one direction for a certain amount of steps. Repeat for reps.|
Machine Glute Kickbacks|Find the Glute Kickback machine in your gym and adjust the machine to your body. Note that your knees should be facing forward and resting near the bottom of the padding. Then place your forearms on the upper padding and grip the handles. Next you want to make sure that you have the arm of the machine under your knee. Now keep your body still, and start to press your leg backwards and upwards by activating the glute. Try to push your legs as far up as you can without rotating your hips, then return to the starting position. Do all reps on one leg first, and then switch to the other leg and repeat.|
One-Legged Glute Bridge|Find a place where you can comfortably lie down on the ground, you will want one foot on the floor, and the other leg extended. You will need to tuck your pelvis inwards properly so you can activate the glutes. Begin to push your hips towards the ceiling by using the glute muscle in the bent leg. Push yourself upwards until your body forms a straight line from head to foot. At the height of your movement you will want to squeeze your glutes. Once you have finished your reps with that leg, switch legs and repeat for reps.|
One-Legged Hip Thrust|Find a chair, couch or a bench. You will begin to lean your back against your chair, sofa, or bench. Use whatever you have on hand and whatever you find to be the most comfortable. Plant one foot on the floor and lift the other leg up. Now begin to push your hips towards the ceiling, you want to use your glute muscle in the leg that is touching the floor. The leg that is pushing you up should form around a 90-degree angle at the height of your movement. Lower your hips back down to the starting position and repeat for reps.|
Romanian Deadlift|Grab a bar or barbell and get into the starting position by deadlifting a barbell off the floor, or by unracking it from a barbell rack. Begin to lean forward by hinging in your hips. While doing this try to keep your knees almost completely extended. Now lean forward as far as possible without rounding your back. Note that you don't have to touch the barbell to the floor, however if you do that is absolutely fine. Once you are standing straight begin to reverse the movement with control and return to your starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Single Leg Romanian Deadlift|Grab a bar or barbell and stand upright and hold the bar with your hands so they are about shoulder-width apart. Now lift one of your legs off the ground. It can rest on the ground as you stand there. Once you start the lift keep the back straight and start to lean forward by hinging at the hips. As you lean forward one of your legs will move backwards and upwards. Now lower yourself until you feel a stretch in the standing leg hamstring. Try to make sure to keep your hips still, the last thing you want is for the side with your lifted leg to start rotating upwards. Return to the starting position. Finish all your reps on one side first, and then repeat on the other leg.|
Standing Glute Kickback in Machine|Find the Standing Glute Kickback machine in your gym and adjust the machine to your body. Note that your knees should be facing forward and resting near the bottom of the padding. Place your forearms on the upper padding and grip the handles. Next you want to make sure that you have the arm of the machine under your knee. Keep your body still, and start to press your leg backwards and upwards by activating the glute. Try to push the leg as far up as you can without rotating your hips, then once at the height of your movement return your leg on the pad to the starting position. Do all your reps on one of your legs first, and then switch to the other leg.|
Step up|Stand in front of a bench, box or even a chair. Please make sure whatever you are stepping up to can hold your weight and is stable. Place one of your feet onto the object you will be stepping up to. Now step up to the object until your leg is straight. Lower yourself wit control until your other foot has touched the ground. Keep in mind you want to keep your other foot on the object at all times. Repeat for reps.|
Cable Crunch|Fasten a rope handle in the upper position on a cable pulley. Sit down on your knees and make sure you are a few feet away from the pulley and make sure you are facing the pulley. Bend your upper body forward and hold the ropes on either side of your head and then pull downwards until your head is barely floating above the ground. Now reverse the motion and return to the starting position with control.|
Crunch|Find a comfortable place to lie on your back, place your hands in front of your chest and make sure your knees are bent to about 90 degrees. Lift your upper body by contracting your abs and bending forward. Try to bend as far forward as possible while still keeping your lower back on the floor and then return to the starting position. Repeat for reps|
Dead Bug|Find a comfortable place to lie on your back, and keep your arms straight up towards the ceiling and your legs stacked over your hips, try to keep your knees bent at a 90-degree angle. Make sure that the lower back has contact with the surface. Now with control straighten out your right leg and lower it towards the floor, while lowering your leg you will lower your opposite arm over your head as far as you can. While this is happening keep the lower back in contact with the floor the entire time. Reverse the movement, and repeat for reps and make sure to switch legs and arms to perform reps for the other side.|
Hanging Leg Raise|Jump up and grab a bar, make sure you are hanging high enough from the ground so that you can hang from it with straight legs. Now begin to lift your legs as high as you can in front of you, make sure you're not swinging when performing this action. Begin to lower your legs again, with control. Repeat for reps.|
Hanging Knee Raise|Jump up and grab a bar, make sure you are hanging high enough from the ground so that you can hang from it with straight legs. Now begin to lift your knees as high as you can in front of you. Try to line your knee up with your chest and while performing the motion make sure you aren't swinging. Lower your legs again, with control and repeat for reps.|
Hanging Sit-Up|Try to find a hanging sit-up machine in your gym. Now begin to climb into position and lower your upper body down to the starting position, try to keep your hands crossed over your chest. Lift your upper body upwards and then at the top of your movement begin to reverse the motion and lower yourself down to the starting position again. Repeat for reps.|
High to Low Wood Chop with Band|Grab an elastic band and fasten it high up. Grip the band with both hands, take about a step away from the band, and stand sideways to the bands anchor point. With almost straight arms, make a sweeping, chopping-like movement diagonally downward. Return to the starting position in a controlled manner. Repeat for reps.|
Horizontal Wood Chop with Band|Grab an elastic band and fasten the band at shoulder height. Grip the band with both hands, take about a step away from the band, and stand sideways to the bands anchor point. With almost straight arms, make a sweeping, horizontal movement to your other side. Return to the starting position in a controlled manner. Repeat for reps.|
Kneeling Ab Wheel Roll-Out|Grab a soft pad to place your knees, and place the ab wheel on the floor in front of you. Try to roll out as far as you can, and while doing so try to maintain a straight back throughout the entire movement. Reverse the movement with control, and return to the starting position. Repeat for reps. |
Kneeling Plank|Find a comfortable place on the ground where you can lie on your elbows and knees. Push your body upwards like a push-up but instead of going downwards again you will sit at the top of that exercise. Try to form and hold a straight line from your head to hips. Once you have planked for a specific amount of time, rest up and repeat for reps|
Kneeling Side Plank|Find a comfortable place on the ground where you can stand on your side, and you will lean against one elbow and your knee. Your core should be facing the same direction your head is facing. Now try to form and hold a straight line from your head to knees. Once you have planked for a specific amount of time, rest up and repeat for reps.|
Lying Leg Raise|Find a comfortable place to lie down on the ground, you will have your back on the floor, and your arms at your sides. With straight legs, lift your legs until they are pointing straight up, keep in mind that you want to keep your lower back attached to floor. Lower your legs again, with control. Repeat for reps.|
Lying Windshield Wiper|Find a comfortable place to lie down on your back, make sure your arms are out to your sides and your legs straight up in the air. Begin to slowly lower your legs down to one side, while this happening try to keep your legs as straight as possible. Then bring your legs back to your starting position so they are straight up in the air again and lower your legs to the other side. Reverse this motion again and repeat for reps.|
Lying Windshield Wiper with Bent Knees|Find a comfortable place to lie down on your back, make sure your arms are out to your sides and your legs straight up in the air. After you have assumed that position bend your knees to 90 degrees. Begin to slowly lower your legs down to one side. Then bring your legs back to your starting position and lower your legs to the opposite side. Reverse this motion again and repeat for reps.|
Machine Crunch|Find the crunch machine in your gym and adjust the machine to the appropriate settings for you, sit down and grip the handles. Bend forward as far as you can then reverse the motion and return to the starting position with control. Repeat for reps|
Mountain Climbers|Get into the plank position and make sure your hands are about shoulder-width apart, try to keep your back as flat as possible. Begin by pulling your right knee into your chest as far as you can. Then switch legs, this means you will pull your opposite knee inwards towards your chest while your other knee outwards to its starting position. While performing your mountain climbers keep your hips down and run the knees in and out as far and as fast as you can. Repeat for reps.|
Oblique Crunch|Find a comfortable place to lie on your back, now position your hands on the side of your head, and make sure that with your feet planted bend your knees to about a 90 degree angle. Now begin to lift your upper body diagonally, do this in a way so that your elbow and shoulder on one side of your body move towards the knee that is opposite of your elbow/shoulder. Bend as far as possible and then return to the starting position. Repeat for reps and remember to switch which elbow comes up everytime.|
Oblique Sit-Up|Grab two dumbbells and find a comfortable place to lie on your back, place your hands behind your head, and bend your knees to about 90 degrees. Use the dumbbells you grabbed and stick your feet underneath them, you want to do this so your feet don't lift from the ground. Now begin to lift your upper body diagonally by bending forward, bend forwards until your right elbow touches your left leg, or vice versa. Then return to the starting position. Remember that you will want to switch which elbow comes upwards in this exercise, repeat for reps.|
Plank|Find a comfortable place to plank, now stand on your elbows and feet. Now try to form and hold a straight line from your head to feet and hold that for as long as you desired. Repeat for reps.|
Side Plank|Find a comfortable place on the ground to stand on your side, leaning against one elbow. Place the foot that is not touching the ground in front of the top leg in front of the other foot. Now try to form and hold a straight line from your head to your feet. Hold that for as long as you can, repeat for reps.|
Sit-Up|Grab two dumbbells or a any weight to keep down your legs while performing the exercise. Find a comfortable place to lie on your back, with your hands in front of your chest and your knees bent to about 90 degrees. Use the weight you grabbed and stick your feet under it so they don't lift from the ground. Begin to lift your upper body by bending forward. Try to bend as far forward as possible, and then return to the starting position. Repeat for reps.|
Eccentric Heel Drop|Grab a stair step or even a thick weight plate, make sure you can stand on this elevated surface stably. If need be find something that you can hold on to for balance. Begin to raise your heels and extend your feet by using both your legs. Lift one leg in the air, and then lower yourself with control standing on only one foot. Make sure to switch to the opposite foot and repeat for reps.|
Heel Raise|Grab a solid surface that you can stand on and make sure it slightly elevated. If need be find something to hold on to for balance. Now begin to raise your heels by using your calves. Now lower yourself with control, and repeat for reps.|
Seated Calf Raise|Find the seated calf raise machine in your gym and sit down on the seat, and adjust the knee pads to your correct height. Now place your toes and the ball of your feet on the foot support. Begin to lower the weight by bending your ankles in a controlled movement. Then push the weight up by extending your ankles. Repeat for reps.|
Standing Calf Raise|Find the standing calf raise machine and place your toes and the ball of your feet on the foot support. Place the shoulder pads against your shoulders and stand upright in the starting position. Now begin to lower yourself down by bending your ankles in a controlled movement. Now to push yourself up by extending your ankles. Repeat for reps.|
Barbell Wrist Curl|Grab a barbell with a underhand grip that is about shoulder width apart, make sure to rest your forearms against your thighs, or alternatively against a bench. Lower your hands towards the floor, and let the barbell roll out into your fingers. Now begin to reverse this motion begin by closing your grip and bending your wrists upwards. Repeat for reps.|
Barbell Wrist Curl Behind the Back|Grab a barbell and hold it behind your back and let your arms hang with the barbell in hand. Now begin to open your hands and let the barbell roll out in your fingers. Now begin to reverse this motion begin by closing your grip and bending your wrists upwards. Repeat for reps.|
Bar Hang|Find a bar in your gym that you can grab onto and hang onto it so your feet don't touch the ground. Now just hang there and you can experiment with relaxed or active shoulders.|
Dumbbell Wrist Curl|Grab a dumbbell with an underhand grip and rest your forearm against your thigh, or alternatively against a bench. Now begin to lower your hand towards the floor, and let the dumbbell roll out into your fingers. Now to reverse this motion begin by closing your grip and bending your wrist upwards.|
Farmers Walk|Step in between two farmers walk-cases, or grab two kettlebells at the same weight. Now grip the handles and and lift the weights. Keep your head looking straight in front of you and begin to move forward in small steps. Increase the stride length as you increase the speed. Try to keep your body in a straight line as you are walking try not to lean excessively forward as you walk. When you are done, lower the weights back to the ground in a controlled manner. Repeat for reps.|
Fat Bar Deadlift|Grab a barbell or bar and step up close to the bar, make sure the bar is sitting just over the middle of your foot. Begin to lean forward and grip the bar, then lift the bar. Try to pull the bar close to your body, all while maintaining a straight back, until you are standing straight. Lower the bar back to the ground with control. Repeat for reps.|
Gripper|Grab a gripper in your gym and hold it so that it is as open as possible, make sure it is not slipping out of your hand. Close the gripper all the way by closing your hand. Return to the starting position and repeat for reps.|
One-Handed Bar Hang|Find a bar in your gym that you can grab onto and hang onto it so that your feet don't touch the ground. Grab a bar with one hand, and hang from it. Start off by hanging with a tensed and active shoulder, and then gradually experiment with hanging with a more relaxed shoulder. Remember to switch which hand you hang from once you finish a set.|
Plate Pinch|Grab a pair of weight plates in a pinching grip. Lift the weight plates off the ground. Hold them for as long as you can, and then put them down in a controlled manner. Remember to switch which hand you grip the plates with as you finish a set.|
Plate Wrist Curl|Grab a small weight plate with a pinching underhand grip and rest your forearm against your thigh, or alternatively against a bench. Begin to lower your hand towards the floor. Now begin to reverse this motion by bending your wrist upwards. Repeat for reps.|
Towel Pull-Up|Lay a pair of towels over a pull-up bar. Grab one towel in each hand. Begin to pull yourself up as high as you can. At the height of your motion begin to lower yourself with control until your arms are fully extended. Repeat for reps.|
Barbell Wrist Extension|Grab a barbell with an overhand grip that is about shoulder width apart, and rest your forearms against your thighs, or alternatively against a bench. Lower your hands towards the floor. Reverse the motion by bending your wrists upwards. Repeat for reps.|
Dumbbell Wrist Extension|Grab a dumbbell with an overhand grip and rest your forearm against your thigh, or alternatively against a bench. Lower your hand towards the floor. Reverse the motion by bending your wrist upwards. Repeat for reps.|